---
layout: post
title: Overview
categories: [getting-started]
tags: [faq]
summary: What is Prey? Why should I install it on my devices? How is it different from other tracking solutions? What should I do to make the most of Prey?
---
* Table of Contents
{:toc}
* * *

This page will answer four questions:

1. What is Prey?
2. Why should I set up Prey on my laptop, phone, and tablet?
3. How is Prey different from other tracking solutions out there?
4. What should I do to make sure that Prey will help me?

# 1. What is Prey?

Prey is a cross-platform, open source security solution that will let you track and potentially recover your devices in case of loss or theft. It can locate your laptops, phones, and tablets on a map, take pictures from all their cameras, take screenshots from your computer, or even remotely wipe the data from your device (except for iOS).    

Prey is both a [tiny piece of software][download] installed on devices (the **Prey agent**), and the [online system][prey-account] used to track them (your **Prey account**). Together they're the powerful service that can turn you from victim to superhero, like [all these guys and gals][recoveries].

# 2. Why should I set up Prey on my laptop, phone, and tablet?

Prey can protect all your devices, regardless if you're a single person or a big business. As long as they run Windows, Mac OS X, Linux, Android, or iOS, Prey will track them down. Here are some of our most common user cases, but the list goes on and on.

- Recovering a device after home or office burglary.
- Locking a cell phone after theft on public transit.
- Ringing an alarm to find a misplaced phone at home.
- Remotely deleting all sensitive data from a work computer, phone, or tablet.
- Restoring to factory defaults an Android device.
- Keeping track of a big business's fleet of devices.
- Monitoring hardware changes and prevent equipment theft in a computer lab.
- Gathering information from devices over time as **Prey reports**.

# 3. How is Prey different from other tracking solutions out there?

Prey came out in late 2009, and since then many other alternatives have seen the light. Some have implemented a few of the features that Prey provides, but none of them can protect all your devices from the same place. With Prey you can consolidate all your security needs on your [Prey account][prey-account], despite of their manufacturer or operating system.

Prey also provides **reports** in addition to real-time location. Reports are generated on intervals set by the user, and include the devices' location, pictures, screenshots, network information, and other data at a given time. These are perfect as evidence when police take charge of things. With other providers you know what is *currently* happening to your computer or mobile; with Prey you also know what has happened over time, and you can save that information for whenever you need.     

# 4. What should I do to make sure that Prey will help me?

Long answer made short, you need to have Prey installed on your devices **before** they're lost or stolen. There are [recommended settings][recommended-settings] per platform, but they all require that you have Prey set under your Prey account and running on the computer or mobile. We do the rest.

## Sign up and install

- [Download Prey][download]. You can sign up from the installer or from [our site][sign-up]. 
- Install Prey on your device. You can get Prey for laptops directly from our site. Prey for mobiles is available on the [AppStore][appstore] and [Google Play][google-play]. 
- Enter your credentials to the installer, or create a new account in case you don't have one.
- Access your [Prey account][prey-account] to make sure that the device was successfully added

## Get Prey to work for you

In most cases it's enough to finish the installer, but we recommend you to play around your [Prey account][prey-account] to make sure that things are running properly. Try to ring an alarm on the panel at the right, or set the computer or mobile to **Missing mode** to check out reports. Remember to say *cheese* to the camera, because your picture will be there.

In case anything is wrong, just [drop us a line][contact-form].

## Check out the right plan for you or your company

Prey is available for free for everyone, but we also provide paid subscriptions that make things a bit more awesome. Need more reports? Want them faster? No problem.

Pro plans start at $5/mo for 3 devices, and can go up to a thousand computers or more, in case your organization needs such protection. You can [subscribe][subscribe] at any time, or request a formal quote for your [business][business] or [educational institution][education].  

*********************

# Learn more

This is just the start. Please head to our [documentation][support-home] to learn more about Prey, solve common questions, and more awesome stuff. 

[support-home]: # "Prey Support"
[prey-account]: https://panel.preyproject.com/ "Prey account"
[download]: https://preyproject.com/download "Download Prey"
[recoveries]: https://preyproject.com/blog/cat/recoveries "Prey recovery stories"
[recommended-settings]: # "Prey recommended settings"
[sign-up]: https://panel.preyproject.com/signup "Signup to Prey"
[appstore]: https://itunes.apple.com/app/id456755037 "Prey for iPhone, iPad, and iPod"
[google-play]: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.prey "Prey for Android"
[contact-form]: # "Prey contact"
[plans]: https://preyproject.com/plans "Prey Pro"
[subscribe]: https://panel.preyproject.com/settings/account "Subscribe to Prey"
[business]: https://preyproject.com/business/ "Prey for Business"
[education]: https://preyproject.com/education/ "Prey for Education"
